Add new Exchange Integration Guide (#8686)
MystenLabs/sui: doc/src/learn/exchange-integration-guide.md

---
title: Sui Exchange Integration Guide
---

This topic describes how to integrate SUI, the token native to the Sui network, into a cryptocurrency exchange. The specific requirements and processes to implement an integration vary between exchanges. Rather than provide a step-by-step guide, this topic provides information about the primary tasks necessary to complete an integration. After the guidance about how to configure an integration, you can also find information and code samples related to staking and delegation on the Sui network.

## Requirements to configure a SUI integration

The requirements to configure a SUI integration include:
 * A Sui Full node. You can operate your own Sui Full node or use a Full node from a node operator.
 * Suggested hardware requirements to run a Sui Full node:
    * CPU: 10 core
    * RAM: 32 GB
    * Storage: 1 TB SSD

We recommend running Sui Full nodes on Linux. Sui supports the Ubuntu and Debian distributions.

> ## Configure a Sui Full node

Reviewer: Should we link to `src/build/fullnode` here to make sure these instructions stay in sync?

Author: Yes, eventually. That topic is not specific to this use case. The new doc site supports reusable text blocks, so we can include the same content in multiple places from a single source. We'll convert this to use that mechanism when we move it over. The Docker stuff is currently only in a readme, so adding it to docs

curl -X POST -H 'Content-type: application/json' --data-raw "$data" $rpc
```

The response can include a large number of events. Add pagination to the response using the `nextCursor` key. You can determine the corresponding `txDigest` and `eventSeq` from the id field of a transaction.  

You can add the value instead of the first null inside the params. The second null is an integer that defines how many results (up to 1000) to return and the `true` means ascending order. By using the `nextCursor` the reply can start from a desired point.

The “id” field of any transaction looks like:
```bash
"id": {
         "txDigest": "GZQN9pE3Zr9ZfLzBK1BfVCXtbjx5xKMxPSEKaHDvL3E2",
         "eventSeq": 6019
       }
```

With this data, create a nextCursor as follows:
```bash
nextCursor : {"txDigest": "GZQN9pE3Zr9ZfLzBK1BfVCXtbjx5xKMxPSEKaHDvL3E2","eventSeq": 6019}
```

## Blocks vs Checkpoints

Sui is a DAG-based blockchain and uses checkpoints for node synchronization and global transaction ordering. Checkpoints differ from blocks in the following ways:

>  * Sui creates checkpoints and adds transaction after finality

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * Sui creates checkpoints and adds finalized transactions. Note that transactions are finalized even before they are included in a checkpoint
```

 * Checkpoints do not fork, roll back, or reorganize.
 * Sui creates one checkpoint about every 3 seconds.

### Checkpoint API operations

Sui Checkpoint API operations include:

>  * sui_getCheckpoint - Retrieves the specified checkpoint.

Reviewer: Shall we link to the json-rpc docs here?

Author: Yes, I am still waiting on a few details about staking to finalize this topic. Will add/update links

 * [sui_pay](https://docs.sui.io/sui-jsonrpc#sui_pay)
   This method is similar to sui_paySui, but it accepts any kind of coin or token instead of only SUI. You must include a gas token, and all of the coins or tokens must be the same type.

 * [sui_transferSui](https://docs.sui.io/sui-jsonrpc#sui_transferSui)
    This method accepts only one SUI token object and an amount to send to the recipient. It uses the same token for gas fees, so the amount to transfer must be strictly less than the value of the SUI token used.

## SUI Staking and Delegation

The Sui blockchain uses a delegated Proof-of-Stake mechanism (DPoS). This allows SUI token holders to delegate their tokens to any validator of their choice. When someone delegates their SUI tokens, it means those tokens are locked for the entire epoch. Users can withdraw their stake and stake with a different validator between epochs.

> SUI holders who delegate their tokens to validators earn rewards for helping secure the Sui  network. Sui determines rewards for delegation based on stakw rewards on the network, and distributes them at the end of each epoch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SUI holders who delegate their tokens to validators earn rewards for helping secure the Sui network. Sui determines rewards for delegation based on stake rewards on the network, and distributes them at the end of each epoch.
```

> The total stake delegated to a validator determines the validator’s voting power.

Reviewer: The total voting power in the Sui Network is always, 10,000, so individual voting powers can be interpreted as basis points (e.g., voting power 101 = 1.01%). Sui's quorum threshold (number of votes needed to confirm a transaction) is 6,667 (i.e., >2/3). The voting power for a single validator is capped at 1,000 (i.e., 10%) regardless of how much stake the validator has.

Author: Added this comment to source doc

The total voting power in the Sui Network is always 10,000. The voting power of each individual validator is similar to basis points. For example, a voting power of 101 = 1.01%. Sui's quorum threshold (number of votes needed to confirm a transaction) is 6,667 (which is greater than 2/3). The voting power for a single validator is capped at 1,000 (10%) regardless of how much stake the validator has.

## Delegated staking functions

Sui supports the following API operations related to staking and delegation. You can find the source code in the [sui_system](https://github.com/MystenLabs/sui/blob/main/crates/sui-framework/sources/governance/sui_system.move) module.

 * `request_add_delegation`
 Add delegated stake to a validator's staking pool.

```rust
public entry fun request_add_delegation(
   self: &mut SuiSystemState,
   delegate_stake: Coin<SUI>,
   validator_address: address,
   ctx: &mut TxContext,
) {
   validator_set::request_add_delegation(
       &mut self.validators,
       validator_address,
       coin::into_balance(delegate_stake),
       option::none(),
       ctx,
   );

> }

Reviewer 2: Not a blocker, but I don't think the bodies of these functions are needed here (and below), and just the signature would be OK so we may want to consider removing the function bodies.

Author: @patrickkuo
